hi there this lesson focuses on one of
the four tasks of the art test the
speaking task in this video I'll give
you an overview of the speaking tasks a
description of each part of the task and
I'll tell you how the speaking task is
assessed overview of the speaking task
in the speaking task you'll be assessed
by an examiner who will ask you some
questions this task will be done
separately to the listening reading and
writing it's usually conducted on a
separate day the speaking task is
between 11 and 14 minutes long and has
three parts
they are the introduction and interview
the short presentation and the
discussion let's start with the first
part the introduction and interview when
the speaking test first starts the
examiner will ask you a few questions
about yourself this will be some
background information about you where
you come from where you live etc this
will be followed by a short interview
questions on a general topic we'll go
through the types of topics in more
detail in the overview lessons
the second part of the speaking task
will be a short presentation you'll be
given a task card with a topic and three
points to address you'll be given one
minute to prepare and take notes and
between one and two minutes to speak
we'll go through this in more detail in
the speaking part to overview lesson
part 3 of the speaking task the third
and final part of the speaking task is
the discussion here the interviewer will
ask you some more in-depth questions
based on the presentation topic in part
2 we'll go through this in some more
detail in the speaking part 3 overview
lesson how the speaking task is assessed
now let's have a look at the four
criteria that asks users to assess your
speaking fluency this is your ability to
continue talking about a topic in a
smooth and meaningful way vocabulary
your ability to use words and phrases
appropriately grammar your ability to
use a wide range of grammar to
communicate clearly and finally
pronunciation your ability to be
understood easily we'll look at these
more closely in the methods lessons to
show you how to maximize them in order
to get a higher score but for now let's
recap summary in this lesson we looked
at the IELTS speaking task we saw that
there are three parts to it the
introduction in an interview the short
presentation and the discussion the
whole thing lasts between 11 and 14
minutes and you'll be speaking with an
examiner after this lesson there are
lessons on each part of the speaking
task be sure to watch these for more
detailed
explanation of each part following each
lesson will be short practice exercises
be sure to complete the use before
moving on to the methods lessons which
tells you how to do the speaking tasks
successfully thanks for watching